08-preconnect-dns-prefetch/readme.md, before:

# Preconnect & DNS Prefetch

Before we talk about Preconnect we need to know what a DNS prefetch is. DNS prefetch alerts the browser that there is an asset we will need later from a specific URL so the browser can resolve the DNS as quickly as it can. This is useful to use with any external libraries or third party scripts because the DNS prefetch can warm up the connections before they are requested.

Preconnect is an extension of DNS prefetch but it will make the TCP handshake and optional TLS negotiation.

## Preconnect Browser Support
![Browser Support for preconnect](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/master/08-preconnect-dns-prefetch/screenshots/preconnect.png)

Like preload, it is not massively support everywhere yet but it is [under consideration].(https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/platform/status/preconnectresourcehints/).

## DNS Prefetch Browser Support

The browser support is a lot better than preconnect so for now we are going to use dns-prefetch instead until preconnect is more widely supported.

![Browser Support for dns-prefetch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/master/08-preconnect-dns-prefetch/screenshots/dns-prefetch.png)

We have a couple of assets that are loaded in from a different URL:

- Picturefill
- Lazyload
- jQuery
- YouTube

We just need to add the HTML into the head of the page:

```html
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://googleads.g.doubleclick.net">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//google.com">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//cdn.rawgit.com">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//code.jquery.com">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//fonts.gstatic.com">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//static.doubleclick.net">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//i.ytimg.com">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//s.ytimg.com">
```

## How to measure the value

If you put [our previous example](http://performance-kit.surge.sh/08/after.html) in web page test and look at the connection view we have our dns lookups happening at different times.

![Connection view before](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/master/08-preconnect-dns-prefetch/screenshots/connection-view-before.png)

After:

![Connection view after](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/master/08-preconnect-dns-prefetch/screenshots/connection-view-after.png)

As you can see the DNS lookups all start early on. This have reduce our page load by **1.3s**.

[Chapter 10 - YouTube Player](https://github.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/tree/master/09-youtube-player/readme.md)


[Useful article on resourec hints](https://www.keycdn.com/blog/resource-hints/)

Commit message:

change: updated with the browser support links under the images

08-preconnect-dns-prefetch/readme.md, after:

# Preconnect & DNS Prefetch

Before we talk about Preconnect we need to know what a DNS prefetch is. DNS prefetch alerts the browser that there is an asset we will need later from a specific URL so the browser can resolve the DNS as quickly as it can. This is useful to use with any external libraries or third party scripts because the DNS prefetch can warm up the connections before they are requested.

Preconnect is an extension of DNS prefetch but it will make the TCP handshake and optional TLS negotiation.

## Preconnect Browser Support
![Browser Support for preconnect](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/master/08-preconnect-dns-prefetch/screenshots/preconnect.png)

[Preconnect Browser Support](http://caniuse.com/#search=preconnect)


Like preload, it is not massively support everywhere yet but it is [under consideration](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/platform/status/preconnectresourcehints/).

## DNS Prefetch Browser Support

The browser support is a lot better than preconnect so for now we are going to use dns-prefetch instead until preconnect is more widely supported.

![Browser Support for dns-prefetch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/master/08-preconnect-dns-prefetch/screenshots/dns-prefetch.png)

[dns-prefetch Browser Support](http://caniuse.com/#search=dns-prefetch)


We have a couple of assets that are loaded in from a different URL:

- Picturefill
- Lazyload
- jQuery
- YouTube

We just need to add the HTML into the head of the page:

```html
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://googleads.g.doubleclick.net">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//google.com">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//cdn.rawgit.com">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//code.jquery.com">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//fonts.gstatic.com">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//static.doubleclick.net">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//i.ytimg.com">
<link rel="dns-prefetch" href="//s.ytimg.com">
```

## How to measure the value

If you put [our previous example](http://performance-kit.surge.sh/08/after.html) in web page test and look at the connection view we have our dns lookups happening at different times.

![Connection view before](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/master/08-preconnect-dns-prefetch/screenshots/connection-view-before.png)

After:

![Connection view after](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/master/08-preconnect-dns-prefetch/screenshots/connection-view-after.png)

As you can see the DNS lookups all start early on. This have reduce our page load by **1.3s**.

[Chapter 10 - YouTube Player](https://github.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/tree/master/09-youtube-player/readme.md)


[Useful article on resourec hints](https://www.keycdn.com/blog/resource-hints/)
