02-fouc-vs-foic/readme.md, before:

# FOUC vs FOIC

## FOIC (“flash of invisible content”)
In a nutshell, FOIC is when your browser is loading a font it does not have. While this is happening, the browser will paint all the text but it will appear hidden on the page until the font has loaded. Once loaded, the browser will re-paint & re-layout the text correctly. [See example](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1369170/19876828/0aa7d0d6-9f97-11e6-86c8-b7e2c80a9986.gif)

## FOUC (“flash of unstyled content”)
FOUC is when the browser paints & layouts your fallback font then when the font has loaded it will re-paint & re-layout the styles to the text. [See example](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1369170/19876827/0aa5c8d6-9f97-11e6-81a2-13fa35f6bbc9.gif)

Chrome stops waiting for web fonts after 3 seconds which means the browser will automatically paint the fallback font.

In my personal opinion, I believe that FOUC is better than FOIC because of one simple reason. We are getting the content to the user faster and we are progressively enhancing our website by serving our fallback font first then adding the nicer functionality once the font has loaded.

## Implementing FOUC

In [our example]() we are going to lazy load our body copy for the page. We are currently using `Roboto`. At the minute we are just including the font family striaght into the css file:

```css
body {
  font-family: 'robotolight', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

.h1, h1, .h2, h2, .btn {
  font-family: 'robotobold', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

```

At the minute we are following the FOIC method so we need to get rid of the `robotolight` and add a `fontname-loaded` class to the body element.

```css
body,
.h1, h1, .h2, h2, .btn {
  font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

.h1, h1, .h2, h2, .btn {
  font-weight: bold;
}

.roboto-light-loaded {
  font-family: 'robotolight', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

.roboto-bold-loaded .h1,
.roboto-bold-loaded h1,
.roboto-bold-loaded .h2,
.roboto-bold-loaded h2,
.roboto-bold-loaded .btn {
  font-family: 'robotobold';
}

```

To load the font into the page without any render blocking we have to make an async XMLHttpRequest to the server then when the asset has been loaded we will add a HTML class to the html element specifying which font has loaded.

```html

<body>
	<script>
		function LoadFont(url, className) {
			$.get(url).done(function() {
				$('html').addClass(className);
			});
		}

		LoadFont('/_assets/fonts/Roboto-Bold-webfont.ttf', 'roboto-bold-loaded');
		LoadFont('/_assets/fonts/Roboto-Light-webfont.ttf', 'roboto-light-loaded');
	</script>
</body>


```

## Implementing FOUC with Typekit

Typekit makes FOUC really easy to implement because they have [font events](https://helpx.adobe.com/typekit/using/font-events.html) which will add the class name of `wf-active` to the html element. All we need to do is wrap the `wf-active` class around our elements that use the `font family` css property.

```css
body,
.h1, h1, .h2, h2, .btn {
  font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

.h1, h1, .h2, h2, .btn {
  font-weight: bold;
}

.wf-active body {
  font-family: 'robotolight', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

.wf-active .h1,
.wf-active h1,
.wf-active .h2,
.wf-active h2,
.wf-active .btn {
  font-family: 'robotobold';
}

```

### In Sass ...

Useful technique in SASS I have learnt is to add this in a `mixin`. For example:

With TypeKit:

```scss
$f-roboto-light: 'robotolight';

@mixin font-loaded($fName) {
  font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;

  .wf-active & {
	  font-family: $fName, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
  }
}

body {
  @include font-loaded($f-roboto-light);
}

```

Without:

```scss
$f-roboto-light: 'robotolight';

@mixin font-loaded($fName, $className) {
	font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;

	.#{$className} & {
		font-family: $fName, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
	}
}

body {
	@include font-loaded($f-roboto-light, 'roboto-light-loaded');
}

```

I found this pretty handy especially if you work on a project that uses `font-family` everywhere. :worried:

## How to measure the value

Measuring the value for this would be to get a film strip from [Web Page Test](https://www.webpagetest.org) and then get another film strip after the implementation. Once you have the comparison you can show the client/project manager the improvement for extra brownie points. :wink:

If you look at the [before example](http://performance-kit.surge.sh/02/before.html) & compare it to the [after example](http://performance-kit.surge.sh/02/after.html) we should see a difference when I reload the page on a **Regular 3G connection (Network Panel > DevTools)**.

**Tip:** - click the capture screenshots button to view a filmstrip of the page load.


[Chapter 03 - Hidden Images](https://github.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/tree/master/03-hidden-images/readme.md)

Commit message:

Feat: implemented fouc on our html page

02-fouc-vs-foic/readme.md, after:

# FOUC vs FOIC

## FOIC (“flash of invisible content”)
In a nutshell, FOIC is when your browser is loading a font it does not have. While this is happening, the browser will paint all the text but it will appear hidden on the page until the font has loaded. Once loaded, the browser will re-paint & re-layout the text correctly. [See example](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1369170/19876828/0aa7d0d6-9f97-11e6-86c8-b7e2c80a9986.gif)

## FOUC (“flash of unstyled content”)
FOUC is when the browser paints & layouts your fallback font then when the font has loaded it will re-paint & re-layout the styles to the text. [See example](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1369170/19876827/0aa5c8d6-9f97-11e6-81a2-13fa35f6bbc9.gif)

Chrome stops waiting for web fonts after 3 seconds which means the browser will automatically paint the fallback font.

In my personal opinion, I believe that FOUC is better than FOIC because of one simple reason. We are getting the content to the user faster and we are progressively enhancing our website by serving our fallback font first then adding the nicer functionality once the font has loaded.

## Implementing FOUC

In [our example]() we are going to lazy load our body copy for the page. We are currently using `Roboto`. At the minute we are just including the font family striaght into the css file:

```css
body {
  font-family: 'robotolight', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

.h1, h1, .h2, h2, .btn {
  font-family: 'robotobold', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

```

At the minute we are following the FOIC method so we need to get rid of the `robotolight` and add a `fontname-loaded` class to the body element.

```css
body,
.h1, h1, .h2, h2, .btn {
  font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

.h1, h1, .h2, h2, .btn {
  font-weight: bold;
}

.roboto-light-loaded {
  font-family: 'robotolight', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

.roboto-bold-loaded .h1,
.roboto-bold-loaded h1,
.roboto-bold-loaded .h2,
.roboto-bold-loaded h2,
.roboto-bold-loaded .btn {
  font-family: 'robotobold';
}

```

To load the font into the page without any render blocking we have to make an async XMLHttpRequest to the server then when the asset has been loaded we will add a HTML class to the html element specifying which font has loaded.

```html

<body>
	<script>
		function LoadFont(url, className) {
			$.get(url).done(function() {
				$('html').addClass(className);
			});
		}

		LoadFont('/_assets/fonts/Roboto-Bold-webfont.ttf', 'roboto-bold-loaded');
		LoadFont('/_assets/fonts/Roboto-Light-webfont.ttf', 'roboto-light-loaded');
	</script>
</body>


```

## Implementing FOUC with Typekit

Typekit makes FOUC really easy to implement because they have [font events](https://helpx.adobe.com/typekit/using/font-events.html) which will add the class name of `wf-active` to the html element. All we need to do is wrap the `wf-active` class around our elements that use the `font family` css property.

```css
body,
.h1, h1, .h2, h2, .btn {
  font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

.h1, h1, .h2, h2, .btn {
  font-weight: bold;
}

.wf-active body {
  font-family: 'robotolight', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

.wf-active .h1,
.wf-active h1,
.wf-active .h2,
.wf-active h2,
.wf-active .btn {
  font-family: 'robotobold';
}

```

### In Sass ...

Useful technique in SASS I have learnt is to add this in a `mixin`. For example:

With TypeKit:

```scss
$f-roboto-light: 'robotolight';

@mixin font-loaded($fName) {
  font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;

  .wf-active & {
	  font-family: $fName, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
  }
}

body {
  @include font-loaded($f-roboto-light);
}

```

Without:

```scss
$f-roboto-light: 'robotolight';

@mixin font-loaded($fName, $className) {
	font-family: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;

	.#{$className} & {
		font-family: $fName, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
	}
}

body {
	@include font-loaded($f-roboto-light, 'roboto-light-loaded');
}

```

I found this pretty handy especially if you work on a project that uses `font-family` everywhere. :worried:

## How to measure the value

Measuring the value for this would be to get a film strip from [Web Page Test](https://www.webpagetest.org) and then get another film strip after the implementation. Once you have the comparison you can show the client/project manager the improvement for extra brownie points. :wink:

If you look at the [before example](http://performance-kit.surge.sh/02/before.html) & compare it to the [after example](http://performance-kit.surge.sh/02/after.html) we should see a difference when I reload the page on a **Regular 3G connection (Network Panel > DevTools)**.

**Tip:** - click the capture screenshots button to view a filmstrip of the page load.

Before.html - We was the content did not appear on the page until 4.32 seconds whereas with FOUC our content appear in 1.04 seconds.

Before.html
![Before.html](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/master/02-fouc-vs-foic/screenshots/FOIC.png)

After.html
![After.html](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/master/02-fouc-vs-foic/screenshots/FOUC.png)

[Chapter 03 - Hidden Images](https://github.com/code-mattclaffey/performance-kit/tree/master/03-hidden-images/readme.md)
